---
title: "Quality of Diet of Adult Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant Survivors"
excerpt: This study aimed to assess dietary intake of allogeneic and autologous HSCT survivors in order to provide adequate information for development of a targeted nutritional intervention. <br><br><a href="https://shalslikesepi.github.io/images/HCT.png" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"><div align="center">View Poster Here.</div></a>
collection: posters
---

**ABSTRACT**  
Advances in the field of hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) have markedly increased the number of long-term HSCT survivors. Higher rates of comorbidity among survivors supports the need for lifestyle interventions targeting this vulnerable population. Nutrition is one of the modifiable factors that may prevent or delay the onset of chronic diseases. This study aimed to assess dietary intake of allogeneic and autologous HSCT survivors in order to provide adequate information for development of a targeted nutritional intervention. Nutrient intake and diet quality was evaluated in 102 HSCT survivors using the Block 2014 food frequency questionnaire (FFQ). Diet quality was quantified by calculating Healthy Eating Index-2010 (HEI 2010) scores. Analysis of covariance was used to assess whether diet quality was affected by demographics or lifestyle factors. The mean HEI-2010 was 62.2 ± 11.6 (age 18-65) and 61.2 ± 8.6 (age>65)(maximum score of 100). Referenced to the recommendations of the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, HSCT survivors consumed excessive amount of saturated fat, sodium, added sugars, and phosphorus and inadequate fiber, calcium, vitamin D, and potassium. This emphasizes the need for nutritional guidance in HSCT survivors’ care to improve quality of diet and mitigate long-term complications.
